bit brighter across parts of eastern
England. Xiao is pushing towards
Walas,
Wales, western England, Northern
Ireland, it gets a bit breezy and
then rain gathering at the far
north—west of Scotland later is a
north-west of Scotland later is a
weather
north—west of Scotland later is a
weather system that will change
everything to end the weekend ——
everything to end the weekend --
showers
everything to end the weekend ——
showers are pushing towards Wales,
western England and Northern
Ireland. Behind is a colder,
brighter air mass with a few
showers. On Sunday a spell of rain
at some stage, early in the North
at some stage, earty in the North
West, late
at some stage, early in the North
West, late in the far south—east.
West, late in the far south-east.
Behind it, if
West, late in the far south—east.
Behind it, if it’s still daylight it
will brighten up. You get a few
showers, wintry on the hills in the
colder air mass that’s following
especially in Scotland. This weather
system heralds a
If you mention his name, he appears.
The Glowing Man is for babies.
I can’t believe you said his name.
Oh, come on,
it’s not even a tme story.
I’ll prove it.
# Glowing Man... #
Glowing Man. Stop!
The Glowing Man’s coming!
Glowing Man! Sh!
Glowing Man! Glowing man!
OK, that’s the TV Licence sorted.
Paying your TV Licence
needn’t be a drama.
Of course it wasn’t true!
Choose the way that’s easiest
for you at tvlicensing.co.uk.
If I could give my younger self
any advice, it would be...
Be the best version of you
that you can be.
Embrace it.
It’s that element
of stepping yourself up.
I mean, I love it.
I’ve got to love every part of me.
HE WHISTLES
If you want to stand out,
just be you.
# Gotta get up, you gotta get up
# Gotta get up,
you gotta get up... #
I just think you’re inspiring.
This year, do it your way.
WHISPERED CHANTING
You’ve been warned before.
Grandma’s knickers.
WHISTLE BLOWS
Unfortunately, she was
a ﬂexitarian vegan cannibal.
All bets are off.
Tonight, we are in Stoke Newington.
Welcome to Question Time. On
tonight’s banner, Theresa Villiers,
the government’s Environment
Secretary, former Secretary of State
for Northern Ireland, Labour’s
Shadow Foreign Secretary and
candidate to become the next leader
of the Labour Party, Emily
of the labour Party, Emily
Thornberry,
of the Labour Party, Emily
Thornberry, Mike Barton, the former
Chief Constable of Durham Police, 3
Chief Constabla of Durham Police, a
force
Chief Constable of Durham Police, 3
force rated outstanding in four
consecutive years while he was at
consecutive years whila he was at
hand, Sarah
consecutive years while he was at
hand, Sarah Baxter, journalist and
deputy editor of the Sunday Times,
and businessmen, broadcaster
and businessmen, broadcasterand
and businessmen, broadcaster and
equality
and businessmen, broadcasterand
equality campaigner Trevor Phillips.
APPLAUSE
Welcome to our panel and our
audience and of course, do you
attain. You can
attain. You canjoin in the on
attain. You ranjoin in the on
social
attain. You canjoin in the on
social media at #bbcqt so do join
in. Let’s take our first question
tonight.
As the mother of a 14—year—old boy
who has been mugged locally
three times this year,
once at knife point,
what are you going to do about it?
Can you tell us a bit more about
(“an you tell us a bit more about
that? You
Can you tell us a bit more about
that? You are local to this area? He
that? You are [oral to this area? He
was
was13
that? You are local to this area? He
was 13 when he was first mugged on
was13 when he was first mugged on
the high
was 13 when he was first mugged on
the high Street, which is the A10,
the big main road. Just outside this
the big main road. just outside this
building? Yes,
the big main road. Just outside this
building? Yes, and once in place old
park at 3:30pm on a Sunday in broad
daylight. -- in
daylight. —— in Clissold Park. He is
daylight. -- in dissold Park. He is
part of
maﬁa
daylight. —— in Clissold Park. He is
part of a generation of children
growing up in these parts who, for
them, it is just something that
happens, Kate, her
happens, Kate, herson was
them, it is just something that
happens, Kate, her son was mugged
just before Christmas. It is like,
this is an epidemic. Um, there’s
been no sort of resolution in terms
of arresting people or... Not in any
of arresting peopla or... Not in any
of those
of arresting people or... Not in any
of those instances? No, no. What
ofthose instances? No, no. what
about you, the
of those instances? No, no. What
about you, the lady sitting next to
her, Kate, has anyone been arrested
for what happened to your son? No,
nothing at all, no, the case was
nothing at all, no, the use was
closed
nothing at all, no, the case was
closed after one day. Wow, that must
closed after one day. Now, that must
have been
closed after one day. Wow, that must
have been terrifying for the boys
and also for you as parents. Trevor,
do you want to kick us off on this?
Well... I should first say that full
disclosure, I was born ten minutes
from here and I grew up in this
area. I lived in up the road,
everyone in this room will know
where woodgrain is —— Wood Green is,
where woodgrain is -- Wood Green is,
the postcode N
where woodgrain is —— Wood Green is,
the postcode N 22 come the typical
amount of sexual and violent crimes
in a London postcode is 26 and where
I grew up, it was 226 last year.
This is not... It is not across the
city but where it is, it is
incredibly serious. You know, I
completely feel for you. There are
three young people, mostly young
three young peopla, mostly young
men,
three young people, mostly young
men, dying in this city every week
from knife crimes. We... There are
two Mam
two Mecca women who die from
domestic violence every week and we
have rightly ploughed enormous
attention and resources into that.
We are not yet doing the same thing
for these young people and I think
we need to be clear what we are
talking about when we are talking
about knife crime. This is not some
accidental thing. What is happening
accidental thing. what is happening
here is young
accidental thing. What is happening
here is young people are being
hunted down by tax of other people
hunted down by tax of other peopla
-- buy packs of
hunted down by tax of other people
—— buy packs of other people. They
-- buy packs of other peopla. They
are
-- buy packs of other people. They
are being
—— buy packs of other people. They
are being stabbed and aside from the
ones who are dying, there are
hundreds in this city who are being
stabbed and forgive me for being
absolutely... Blunt about this,
absolutely. . . Blunt about this,
there is
absolutely... Blunt about this,
there is now a thing that they do.
They stab kids in the and us so they
have to wear colostomy bags. This is
vicious, a war, and it is out of
control, we and the authorities seem
not to be interested except to say,
'Let’s
"Let’s have an argument about are
there more police or are there more
cut?" Actually, everyone who knows
about that these kids are doing it
in a way that you would have to have
North Korean levels of policing to
catch them at it. I think we have to
do some different things, first and
we’ve got to understand what is
happening here, in the first thing
is, who is doing the killing and who
is doing the dying? Let me be
absolutely frank and it is young
black men who are dying and by the
way,
“Y- young
black men who are dying and by the
way, young black men who are doing
the killing so we need to focus on
those communities and those areas
and not pretend that this is
something which is just abstract.
Secondly, we need to help some of
the communities where the young
people have come straight from war
peopla have come straight from war
zones. In
people have come straight from war
zones. In this area, I think
everybody here will know what I’m
talking about. We throw them into
school... Right micro for people who
school... Right micro for peopla who
don’t live
school... Right micro for people who
don’t live locally, the audience at
home. London is a very mixed
community, it is vibrant, all the
rest of it and we receive, rightly,
people from terrible backgrounds,
children who have seen their
relatives killed in front of them,
and what do we do? We put them
straight into school. We don’t help
them, we don’t give them therapy.
That is the kind of thing we need to
do. We need to spend, first of all,
locate the problem properly,
locate the problem property,
secondly,
locate the problem properly,
secondly, we need to spend as much
as we ran
as we can to
secondly, we need to spend as much
as we ran to help
as we can to help these young people
as we ran to help these young people
find a way
as we can to help these young people
find a way through. I mean, I could
talk about this all night and I know
I haven’t got the time, I feel so
passionately about this, I’m sorry,
I could go on about it. But let’s
take this seriously and not turn
this... Let me pre—empt, into an
this... Let me pre-empt, into an
argument about
this... Let me pre—empt, into an
argument about who is going to spend
more on police, that is not going to
be the answer. The answer here is
recognising who is killing, who is
dying, and help those people, not
dying, and help those peopla, not
some
dying, and help those people, not
some general policy. APPLAUSE
Just to add to what Trevor is
just to add to what Trevor is
saying, we
Just to add to what Trevor is
saying, we have knife offences at
the moment at the highest level ever
recorded and then today, in terms of
offences recorded that then result
in a suspect being charged or
summonsed, that is a record low
around just 796
around just 7% of offences. Mike,
around just 796 of offences. Mike,
obviously I’m
around just 7% of offences. Mike,
obviously I’m going to come to you
now is the former Chief Constable of
now is the former Chief Constabla of
Durham,
now is the former Chief Constable of
Durham, have you got personal
expense of trying to deal with this
and what is your view? What did you
and what is your view? what did you
do in
and what is your view? What did you
do in Durham to try and have an
effect on it? I will come to that,
if I may, Fiona, first of all, Lena
and Kate, dreadful that you have had
to go through this and particularly
to go through this and particularty
your children
to go through this and particularly
your children and after the show, if
you want to see me, then, I am sure
you are being looked after but I can
you are being looked after but I ran
certainly just
you are being looked after but I can
certainlyjust make sure that... I’m
sure the metropolitan place support
are doing their best but if you
want, I
want, Iran
are doing their best but if you
want, I canjust cast
want, I can just cast an eye over it
want, I unjust fast an eye over it
for you. This is my
want, I can just cast an eye over it
for you. This is my fault. This is
the fault of the police, because for
39 years, now, I have done your
bidding. I have done it rather well,
actually, I’m rather proud of
myself. I have locked up a lot of
dmg dealars.
drug dealers. When I have locked
dmg dealars. when I have locked
them up, I put
drug dealers. When I have locked
them up, I put them to court and
therve gone to
they’ve gone to prison for a long
therve gone to prison for a long
time but
they’ve gone to prison for a long
time but two hours after I have
locked them up, behind my back, two
more violent drug dealers have tried
more violent dmg dealars have tried
to take
more violent drug dealers have tried
to take over the patch and the most
violent one has won. 50 then I go
violent one has won. So then I go
after the
violent one has won. 50 then I go
after the most violent drug dealer
after the most violent dmg dealar
that has
after the most violent drug dealer
that has taken over from the
previous one and this is a Darwinian
spiral of violence. Then we are
quite sneaky as cops. We employ
undercover police and double agents.
And the dmg
And the drug dealers worked out that
And the dmg dealers worked out that
we don’t
And the drug dealers worked out that
we don’t employ people who are 13
we don’t employ peopla who are 13
and 14 so
we don’t employ people who are 13
and 1A so that is who they recruit
and 14 so that is who they recmit
to do their
and 1A so that is who they recruit
to do their bidding. The people who
deliver all the drugs that I wanted
in London, principally, under
in London, principally, under17.
in London, principally, under 17.
And we
in London, principally, under17.
And we have created that. We have
created that because we have done
your bidding. We are never going
to... I
to... Iagree
your bidding. We are never going
to... I agree with Trevor, we’re
never going to arrest our way out
this problem. Of course, the police
have got a role to play. Of course,
have got a rola to play. Of course,
we’ve got to
have got a role to play. Of course,
we’ve got to investigate crime, and
of course, it is vital that the
attacks on Lena and Kate’s children
are investigated to the fullest
extent, but the cuts since 2010 have
had an impact. There’s got to be a
grown-up
grown—up debate about drugs. 39
grown-up debate about drugs. 39
years ago,
grown—up debate about drugs. 39
years ago, when I
years ago, when Ijoined policing,
most of the heroine in this country
name from
came from Afghanistan. It still
does. We have got the same number of
police officers but 100 times more
police officers but100 times more
heroin coming
police officers but 100 times more
heroin coming from Afghanistan. 50
heroin coming from Afghanistan. So
what is
heroin coming from Afghanistan. 50
what is the answer? Well, the answer
is, it has got to be, use and social
provision. We have got to prevent
this, we’ve got to get upstream.
Sadly, the cuts to policing our own
mere shadow of the cuts to local
mere shadow of the cuts to [oral
authority
mere shadow of the cuts to local
authority budgets on the last ten
years. -- are a
years. —— are a mere shadow.
years. -- are a mere shadow.
APPLAUSE
Yes, the woman here. Concerning what
the two ladies said over there,
three years ago, I was mugged while
in labour. I went to hum. The
hospital? Gobern yes, just down
there in Stamford Hill,
there in Stamford Hill, I have not
had any arrests and the case is
had any arrests and the use is
closed.
had any arrests and the case is
closed. Where I live now in seven
dosed. where I live now in seven
games, just
closed. Where I live now in seven
games, just behind my window, three
men were fought and killed, I
watched everything and nobody asked
if I was feeling 0K,
if I was feeling OK, the
psychological effect of the past
one. These where the killings that
happened last week? Yes, they were
just behind my window. And no one
has asked how I am faring if I am
0K,
OK, but
has asked how I am faring if I am
0K, butfor
OK, but for my family, who has been
doing my school run for me. I
doing my school run for me. Ijust
doing my school nm for me. Ijust
want to know,
doing my school run for me. Ijust
want to know, isn’t it right for the
government to set out some
organisation that can give advice
organisation that ran give advice
and any way
organisation that can give advice
and any way to help the victims? And
how are you? So so. Theresa
Villiers, you have heard the woman
there speak so powerfully and also
there speak so powerfuuy and also
what
there speak so powerfully and also
what Mike had to say in terms of
pleasing numbers, to a certain
extent but nonetheless, it has made
an impact but nothing, as he was
sane, relative to the cuts to local
sane, relative to the cuts to [oral
authority
sane, relative to the cuts to local
authority budgets and we have had a
Conservative government to the last
ten years. Well, the current
situation is intolerable, the
situation is intolarable, the
upsurge in
situation is intolerable, the
upsurge in knife crime has to be
dealt with and we are determined to
do that. Do you feel in part
responsible when you hear someone
like Mike talk about cuts to local
like Mike talk about cuts to [oral
authority
like Mike talk about cuts to local
authority budgets? I believe we need
to recmit
to recruit 20,000 more police. We
to recmit 20,000 more police. We
are
to recruit 20,000 more police. We
are committed to doing that. We need
a strong police response. We have
strength in stop and search powers
which are crucial. We are giving
which are cmcial. We are giving
police the
which are crucial. We are giving
police the tasers they have
requested. We are also fully
recognising that we need to invest
more in the programme is to prevent
young people from getting involved
young peopla from getting involved
in gangs and
young people from getting involved
in gangs and crime in the first
place. So we have got £700 million
worth of programmes planned now for
exactly that. We need a dual
approach, a tough policing response
to bring the perpetrators to
justice, but also a really
comprehensive route to try to ensure
that young people do not get
involved in this kind of cycle of
violance
violence in the first place, and to
promote that public health approach
which has worked so well in Glasgow
and many cities in the US as well.
Isn’t this just making up for the
cuts that you have already made?
Know, it’s not, I mean, if you look
Know, it’s not, I mean, ifyou look
at the last
Know, it’s not, I mean, if you look
at the last time this upsurge in
violent crime on the streets of
London happened, that was in around
2008 and actually, Boris, as Mayor
of London, brought the murder rate
is down by 50%. And it went down
is down by 5096. And it went down
across
is down by 50%. And it went down
across the country, not
across the country, notjust in
across the country, not just in
London. It
across the country, notjust in
London. It is possible to do this
London. It is possibla to do this
and we
London. It is possible to do this
and we are determined to do this
because we have to keep the young
people on the streets of this city
and others safe. There’s a lot of
hands up so Trevor, if you forgive
me, I’m going to get around the
audience, yes. I
audience, yes. Ijust want to
me, I’m going to get around the
audience, yes. I just want to follow
through with what Trevor said about
the peopla
the people who are killing are
the peopla who are killing are
within
the people who are killing are
within the black community, the
peopla who
people who are dying are within the
peopla who are dying are within the
black
people who are dying are within the
black community. So does it mean,
then, that because it is... A
problem belonging to particular
section society, that the government
either doesn’t understand the need
or has become desensitised about
this population, this group of the
population, who, for some reason, it
may result from a vicious cycle of
deprivation, that no one cares to
look into? I don’t know that
listening is the answer to it, I
don’t know that the political
argument about investment is the
right answer to this problem. We
need to look further than this.
APPLAUSE
We will come back to that, yes, the
woman with the blonde hair and a
scarf. I think you are absolutely
right, this problem began way before
cuts to the Met, it began with the
complete abolition of youth services
in all the areas. We have just seen
[oral
local services for the youth
[oral services for the youth
stripped
local services for the youth
stripped out of communities and
young men have nowhere to go,
nowhere to turn, no support. Where
nowhere to turn, no support. where
do they turn?
nowhere to turn, no support. Where
do they turn? They turn to each
other, they become each other’s
families.
families. The cornerstones to young
people becoming successful adults
peoplc becoming successful adults
are
people becoming successful adults
are self—esteem, confidence, self
are self-esteem, confidence, self
worth
are self—esteem, confidence, self
worth and the places where they were
getting that youth services and
without that, this is where the
problem began. The man at the back.
ﬂ
I think these issues are driven by
people’s consumptions. London is the
cocaine capital of Europe. We have
all been to parties, I have, where
it is visibly on show and people
it is visibly on show and peopla
have no
it is visibly on show and people
have no qualms about using it.
People who join these gangs, they
see that there is money in drug
see that there is money in dmg
dealing, so
see that there is money in drug
dealing, so maybe the government
needs to look at its drug policies
needs to look at its dmg policies
as well.
needs to look at its drug policies
as well. Maybe there is an option in
a decriminalisation model like they
have in Portugal or something which
might solve it from the demand side.
Not parties I go to, but maybe I am
eating the wrong people. Trevor, I
agree with you about how it is not
just police numbers, but I don’t
think you ran
think you can underestimate the
think you ran underestimate the
concept of
think you can underestimate the
concept of government’s cuts to
police numbers, because the extra
20,000 police officers that Boris
johnson is
Johnson is going to recruit will
johnson is going to recmit will
only begin
Johnson is going to recruit will
only begin to bring levels back to
where they were. The police number
cuts are such a significant thing
and it has to be taken into
consideration, and the part that has
played in knife crime. Emily. I
think you’re right. We are not
think you’re right. We are notjust
think you’re right. We are not just
talking about
think you’re right. We are notjust
talking about because the police
talking about berause the police
numbers,
talking about because the police
numbers, we are also talking about
the community support officers he
used to be the eyes and ears, who
used to mn
used to run the boxing clubs in my
used to nm the boxing clubs in my
area, who
used to run the boxing clubs in my
area, who used to have a connection
with the community. Because
communities cannot be policed.
Policing isn’t something which is
done to a community, it can only be
done to a community, it ran only be
done with
done to a community, it can only be
done with the agreement of the
community and you must work with the
community. My heart goes out to you
two. I
two. lam
community. My heart goes out to you
two. I am a local mother as well.
two. I am a [oral mother as well.
All three of my
two. I am a local mother as well.
All three of my kids have been
mugged. They have all had their
bicycle stolen. It’s terrifying. One
bicyda stolan. It’s terrifying. One
of
bicycle stolen. It’s terrifying. One
of the perpetrators was taken to
court because my daughter ran out
and got a police car to arrest the
and got a police far to arrest the
person. But it is
and got a police car to arrest the
person. But it is terrifying and it
is something we live with day—to—day
is something we live with day-to-day
in the
is something we live with day—to—day
in the inner
is something we live with day-to-day
in the inner city.
is something we live with day—to—day
in the inner city. And there are
levels. There are the street
muggings, and then there are the
dmg dealers
drug dealers and drug gangs. As a
dmg dealars and dmg gangs. As a
[oral
drug dealers and drug gangs. As a
local member of parliament, I have
[oral member of partiament, I have
been to so
local member of parliament, I have
been to so many mothers’ houses, not
been to so many mothers“ houses, not
just black
been to so many mothers’ houses, not
just black mothers,
just black mothers, but mothers from
all different communities, because
the gangs are actually very
multiracial, and I go and knock on
the door and I give the mum letter
and I say if you ever need me, I am
here and sometimes they ask me in
immediately, and sometimes they
don’t. It takes years and I continue
to have families that I look after
because nobody ever gets over this.
And not only is the life of the
young person who is murdered ruined
young person who is murdered mined
and all of
young person who is murdered ruined
and all of their
and all of theirfamily, but
young person who is murdered ruined
and all of their family, but so
and all of theirfamily, but so is
and all of their family, but so is
the stupid,
and all of theirfamily, but so is
the stupid, terrible young man who
has stabbed someone and who in turn,
if they get cut and go to prison,
their familrs
their family’s lives are wrecked. We
their familrs lives are wrecked. We
know
their family’s lives are wrecked. We
know what the solution is. We have
to have more police officers and
community police officers, but we
also have to have more youth
services. My borough next door has
had 70% cuts from government to its
had 7096 cuts from government to its
central ground.
had 70% cuts from government to its
central ground. Hackney has had the
same. And what happens when you cut
back a [oral
back a local authority that much?
hack a [oral authority that much?
They only do
back a local authority that much?
They only do what the law says they
have to do. And because the law
doesn’t say they have to provide
youth services, because they have to
provide social care and other things
provide social rare and other things
like looking
provide social care and other things
like looking after kids in care and
like looking after kids in rare and
that sort
like looking after kids in care and
that sort of thing, they cut
that sort of thing, they cutback on
that sort of thing, they cut back on
youth services.
that sort of thing, they cutback on
youth services. They don’t want to,
but they have to and then what do
these youngsters do, somebody else
set? When a child gets to 11, 12,
set? when a child gets to“, 12,
13, they want
set? When a child gets to 11, 12,
13, they want to find a role model
13, they want to find a rola model
outside
13, they want to find a role model
outside the family because that is
part of growing up. And if there
isn’t a sports teacher or a youth
worker or a teacher who has the time
for them, they will find role models
amongst their own age group and this
is how gangs develop. I don’t
directly disagree with anything that
peopla
people have said on this panel and
peopla have said on this panel and
in the
people have said on this panel and
in the audience. And I appreciate
the point about middle—class drug
the point about middle-class dmg
takers
the point about middle—class drug
takers who are happy to take the
cocaine and not worry about who is
supplying it. At the same time, as a
mother of a 19—year—old, I was
mother of a 19-year-old, I was
relieved
mother of a 19—year—old, I was
relieved when he got to the age of
19 because I felt he was so
vulnerable in the neighbourhood like
this, not far from
this, not farfrom here, where he
this, not far from here, where he
was 14 or 15
this, not farfrom here, where he
was 1A or 15 and I am glad he is
was 14 or 15 and I am glad he is
finally getting
was 1A or 15 and I am glad he is
finally getting to manhood. But in
my area, where there have been
several deaths, it is unquestionably
not just a rase
notjust a case of more police, but
not just a use of more police, but
more
notjust a case of more police, but
more visible police on the street. I
hope that is what Boris
hope that is what BorisJohnson
hope that is what Boris johnson
means by an
hope that is what BorisJohnson
means by an extra 20,000. I would
like to see more. At one stage, the
police fame and
police came and sat
like to see more. At one stage, the
police came and satin our area
police fame and sat in our area
where
police came and sat in our area
where local youths congregated. They
where [oral youths congregated. They
were
where local youths congregated. They
were there night after night for
about a month and that finally
dismpted
disrupted the gangs, and they
haven’t properly returned. It is
haven’t property returned. It is
still a bit
haven’t properly returned. It is
still a bit scary, but they haven’t
returned two or three years on and
that is the importance of having
mP5
cops that care about communities who
cops that rare about communities who
are
cops that care about communities who
are determined to be there until
they have done something about the
problem. I have also had experience
recently of a poor kid dying on the
streets near me. There was crime
seem ticker tape and I went up to
the [oral
the local policeman and said, what
the [oral policeman and said, what
has
the local policeman and said, what
has happened? And he acted like I
was a nobody had a real nerve to ask
what was going on in my own
community. So
community. Sol
what was going on in my own
community. So I expect police to be
polite to the people who live in the
area, to discuss problems who live
there. For
there. Forall they
area, to discuss problems who live
there. For all they know,
there. Forall they know, I
area, to discuss problems who live
there. For all they know, I could
have been a witness, I could have
seen someone run away or put a knife
seen someone mn away or put a knife
in the bin, but
seen someone run away or put a knife
in the bin, but they acted like they
didn’t want to hear from me.
didn’t want to hearfrom me. And I
didn’t want to hear from me. And I
think a lot
didn’t want to hearfrom me. And I
think a lot of us feel like you can
think a lot of us feel like you ran
increase
think a lot of us feel like you can
increase police numbers, but are the
police actually helping us? They
have done in the past and I have
benefited from that, but not always.
I would love to see more of that
active policing so that you can call
active policing so that you ran all
somebody
active policing so that you can call
somebody and ask what is going on.
Mike? If only you had been the Chief
Constable in Durham, because you are
Constabla in Durham, because you are
spot on. If
Constable in Durham, because you are
spot on. If one of my police
officers had been as rude to you is
that, I
that, Iwould
officers had been as rude to you is
that, I would have been
that, I would have beenjolly
unimpressed. Policing is dead
straight forward, folks. We have got
to be approachable, kind and
ruthless when appropriate. But you
mthless when appropriate. But you
have got to
ruthless when appropriate. But you
have got to know who we are. If you
don’t know our names, how can we
don’t know our names, how ran we
please with
don’t know our names, how can we
please with you? When Robert Peel
please with you? when Robert Peel
set up the
please with you? When Robert Peel
set up the police, he said the
police and other public and the
pub“:
public are the police. We are not an
army of occupation. Sadly, if police
officers feel beleaguered, then
sometimes you do get those
dysfunctional relationships. You
have got to have neighbourhood
police officers and hopefully a
loral
local police station where you know
[oral police station where you know
their
local police station where you know
their names and they are on patrol
with PCSOs. Those offices and PCSOs
with P605. Those offices and P605
have to
with PCSOs. Those offices and PCSOs
have to have a spring in their step.
One of the things that inspectors
always said when they came to Durham
was, gosh, it feels different here.
You have to engender that feeling
that you ran
that you can do something. Let’s not
that you ran do something. Let’s not
be
that you can do something. Let’s not
be fatalistic. You asked me what we
did, Fiona. We arrest people, but we
did, Fiona. We arrest peopla, but we
don’t
did, Fiona. We arrest people, but we
don’t necessarily prosecute. If
somebody has been stabbed, then
dearty that
clearly that goes to court, but I’m
dearty that goes to court, but I’m
talking about
clearly that goes to court, but I’m
talking about the precursor
behaviour. We all know about adverse
child experiences. So in Durham,
there is something called the mini
there is something railed the mini
police at
there is something called the mini
police at every
police at everyjunior school now.
police at every junior school now.
And we
police at everyjunior school now.
And we make sure the most
disadvantaged kids are part of that
with the police uniform. They learn
about social cohesion. And it isn’t
twee, its hard—hitting and has a
twee, its hard-hitting and has a
major impact.
twee, its hard—hitting and has a
major impact. Those children have
got civic values for the rest of
their lives. Trevor? I
their lives. Trevor? lam
got civic values for the rest of
their lives. Trevor? I am going to
put back on a couple of things. I
don’t want drugs in my city. I would
like to have more police officers,
but we are talking about a specific
thing. Three young men will die
before this programme is broadcast
again, and we know what they look
like, we know what part of the city
they come from. And we also know
that it isn’t about something
happening externally. Talk to these
kids and they will tell you about
beef. They will tell you about the
insane reasons these things happen,
which are outside the can of people
which are outside the ran of peopla
on this panel
which are outside the can of people
on this panel and people in the
audience. We need to understand what
they are doing and why. If I had a
son, he would be well off, but I bet
he would stand a good chance of
being involved in this kind of thing
too. There are two practical things
we could do. First, I would like to
see somebody stop glorifying the
culture and the music and all of
that that does drill, guns, kill,
kill, kill, and disrespects women.
We make heroes of the people who
make this music. I need to be blunt
about that. That is one of the
reasons that young people are into
reasons that young peopla are into
it. The
reasons that young people are into
it. The second thing we could do, we
ran handle
can handle the police, but that will
ran handla the police, but that will
take
can handle the police, but that will
take time. Across the road from
here, there is a park. My mum pushed
me around it as a baby. Nobody will
walk across that part tonight,
Clissold Park, because it is too
dissold Park, because it is too
dangerous.
Clissold Park, because it is too
dangerous. One of the reasons is
that we have public spaces now which
is to be the province of
is to be the province ofjanitors
and park keepers and schools would
have teaching assistants who would
work with people. In Hackney, that
work with peopla. In Hackney, that
is something
work with people. In Hackney, that
is something that a successful
school did. Maybe one thing you
could do is invest in bringing back
some of those intermediate
professionals, not the big deal, but
people who are just there, because
these things happen in places where
nobody is watching. The more we can
nobody is watching. The more we ran
have those park
nobody is watching. The more we can
have those park keepers and janitors
back, the people who are around, the
back, the peopla who are around, the
more likely
back, the people who are around, the
more likely we are to protect our
kids. Do the simple thing first. I’m
going to move on, but I want to come
back to you, Lena. I know about 30
peopla who
people who have been mugged in
Clissold Park and through this
community network that I am part of.
I have seen two policemen wants
patrolling. We are communicating
with the authorities through this
network that I am part of and we
tell them and encourage people to
report. But
report. Butl
tell them and encourage people to
report. But I have only once seen
any police there. The other thing is
that there is evidence that says the
increase in exclusion from school is
tied to the increase in street
crime, so we are excluding more and
more and schools are becoming
stricter. That is a question for the
Tory government. If you will forgive
me, I’m going to take another
question, but thank you for your
contribution. Before I do, next week
we will be the Derbyshire spa town
of Buxton. The week after, we will
be in Hertfordshire. If you want to
be in the audience, call.
Let’s ta ke
Let’s take another question now from
Phil Connolley.
F.
Isa
Is a potential trade agreement with
the US knowing jeopardy as a result
of the new digital tax?
of the new digital tax? We had the
Chancellor say he is introducing a
new digital tax in April. We also
had the USA if you do that, we will
slap a tariff on your cuts. Are you
going to go ahead? We are going to
goin
go 9 to go ah
ead? w
e are
goin
9 to
going to go ahead? We are going to
go ahead with our digital services
tax. I believe it is vital that big
international businesses pay their
taxes. We have been working on this
for many years at an international
level, and solving it at an
international level is the best way
to do it. But that is taking so long
that we have to act domestically
now. Even if the US carries out its
threat, which it has on whiskey, as
you know. Even if the US makes good
on this threat? We export one in
five tars
five cars to the US, it is worth
over £7 billion a year, but you will
still go ahead with this tax? The
digital services tax is the right
thing to do. We decide our taxes,
not the US. But you want to do a
trade deal with them. That was the
idea of Brexit. Is it worth a tariff
on cars? There is right for public
concern about aggressive tax
avoidance schemes by large
multinational companies. Those which
are economically active in this
country should pay their fair share
of taxes, not least because these
businesses are competing with our
[oral high
local high streets, with small
businesses having to pay business
rates. It’s time these big companies
paid their fair
paid theirfair share
rates. It’s time these big companies
paid theirfairshare and
paid theirfair share and this
paid their fair share and this
digital
paid theirfair share and this
digital services tax in a further
step to making sure that that
happens. Emily? I
happens. Emily? Iagree
step to making sure that that
happens. Emily? I agree with you!
happens. Emily? I agree with you! I
happens. Emily? Iagree with you! I
think it’s
happens. Emily? I agree with you! I
think it’s outrageous. If you look
at the so called prophets that
Starbucks make, for goodness’ sake,
Starbucks make, for goodness“ sake,
look at
Starbucks make, for goodness’ sake,
look at the number of stores they
have up and down the country and
then look at the amount of profit
they claim they make. They are
taking the Mickey. Taxes should be
something that everybody pays. When
Starbucks employ someone, they are
employing someone who has been
educated thanks to our taxes. They
walk down the same streets that we
have paid for, why aren’t they
paving
paying for it? It is about time. I
agree with the frustration that we
agree with the fmstration that we
should
agree with the frustration that we
should be dealing with this
internationally. Of course that is
the way to deal with these
international companies who will
play off one country against
another. We have to control these
international companies, but if it
is not happening, we can’t
is not happening, we can’tjust keep
is not happening, we can’t just keep
waiting. So do
is not happening, we can’tjust keep
waiting. 50 do you think the car
manufacturers will thank you for
that? Frankly, 50% of our pages with
that? Frankly, 5096 of our pages with
the European
that? Frankly, 50% of our pages with
the European Union and our primary
concern should be making sure we
have a trade deal with the European
Union between now and the end of the
year. Boris
year. BorisJohnson claims he will
year. Boris johnson claims he will
be able
year. BorisJohnson claims he will
be able to
year. Boris johnson claims he will
be able to get
year. BorisJohnson claims he will
be able to get that trade deal done.
I think most rightly thinking people
I think most rightly thinking peopla
think
I think most rightly thinking people
think this is fantasy on his part
and he won’t be able to get it done.
And attach to our leaving the
European Union is that there are 60
other countries with whom we have
trade deals through A0 other
agreements and if we are leaving the
European Union, we will not only
have the trade deal with the
European Union, but we were also
made the trade deals with the other
60 countries. We don’t have a trade
deal with the United States and have
been trading with them a lot in any
event. So when we are always being
told, don’t worry about Europe,
Donald Tmmp
Donald Trump will save us, I don’t
Donald Tmmp will save us, I don’t
believe it.
Donald Trump will save us, I don’t
believe it. He keeps telling us he
is a great deal—maker. We have yet
is a great deal-maker. We have yet
to see one
is a great deal—maker. We have yet
to see one on
is a great deal-maker. We have yet
to see one on any
is a great deal—maker. We have yet
to see one on any level. Where is
to see one on any lavel. where is
the deal of
to see one on any level. Where is
the deal of the century he was
supposed to do in Israel and
Palestine? It is all
Palestine? It is alljust hot air
Palestine? It is all just hot air
and he
Palestine? It is alljust hot air
and he doesn’t come with these deals
at all. We should just make sure we
are getting people to pay their
are getting peopla to pay their
taxes.
The man in the middle. Emily has
made some of the point that I was
going to make, the threat to the
same trade deal with the United
States, the climate denying stable
genius that is Donald Trump and I
genius that is Donald Tmmp and I
think if
genius that is Donald Trump and I
think if anything is going to derail
a trade deal, it will be him. He
woman in the red top. Well, other
countries are already doing it,
France and Spain, some of the Asian
country. Doing what? In terms of
introducing this tax. Right, well,
France is delaying its. But they are
going to introduce it and the OECD
eventually will do it. So it should
be an international agreement?
Donald Trump cannot have a hissy fit
Donald Tmmp cannot have a hissy fit
with everyone
Donald Trump cannot have a hissy fit
with everyone so we might as well go
ahead. All right, the woman at the
with the glasses. We know how Donald
Tmmp
Trump operates, he is very
transactional. Because there is
alignment across other countries on
digital tax, he
digitaltax, he might
alignment across other countries on
digital tax, he might expect to lose
on that or give on that. How do we
know that the Tory government will
say, in exchange for taxing
technology companies, sacrifice the
NHS, perhaps, allow privatisation? I
will come back to you on that
commentaries about let me get around
the panel, Sarah. I love America,
I’m half American but I don’t
believe even the hardest of hard
Brexiteers voted to leave the
European Union
European Unionjust
Brexiteers voted to leave the
European Union just to
European Unionjust to become
America’s poodle. I don’t think it
America’s poodla. I don’t think it
would be
America’s poodle. I don’t think it
would be a good look for Boris
johnson to
Johnson to be saying yes to
johnson to be saying yes to
everything
Johnson to be saying yes to
everything Donald Trump asks for
because he is the kind of President
that will just ask for more. So
that willjust ask for more. So we
that will just ask for more. So we
are a sovereign
that willjust ask for more. So we
are a sovereign nation. We ought to
be able to chew gum and walk at the
same time, we are going to have to
make deals all over the world, with
the European Union because they are
our closest partner, with America
because we have always had a very
good trading relationship with the
US, and I think it has got rather
over
over complicated by Remainers
insisting it is all going to be a
disaster, we will have chlorinated
chicken which I’ve eaten for years
without any effect whatsoever from
the US or conversely that Brexiteers
55V
say we must not have any links left
with the European Union. Let’s
with the European Union. Let’sjust
with the European Union. Let’s just
dial it down,
with the European Union. Let’sjust
dial it down, we are leaving the
European Union very soon and we have
to have good trade with everybody.
Actually, I think there will end up
being a lot of tough talk but
goodwill in the end. That is very
sensible, maybe a little too
pragmatic but that is how...
Optimistic, Emily is muttering under
her breath. That is how trade deals
are sealed in the end, people, my.
Trevor? Amazingly, I
Trevor? Amazingly, Iagree
are sealed in the end, people, my.
Trevor? Amazingly, I agree with what
has been said, the big tech
companies, I chair
companies, I chaira
has been said, the big tech
companies, I chair a tech company,
and we don’t make that kind of
money, but the big tech companies
are paying, I think,
are paying, Ithink, between
money, but the big tech companies
are paying, I think, between two —
are paying, I think, between two -
31: tax
396 tax right
are paying, I think, between two —
3% tax right now, everyone in this
396 tax right now, everyone in this
room is going
3% tax right now, everyone in this
room is going to be paying between
20-405
20-40% tax. It is
room is going to be paying between
20—A0% tax. It is just mad that we
20-4096 tax. It is just mad that we
allow
20—A0% tax. It is just mad that we
allow them to do it, and frankly,
they know it is mad and they know
it’s not going to go on for ever, so
frankly, I’m completely with you.
Interesting, by the way, that I kind
of like what Sajid Javid did the
of like what Sajid javid did the
other day.
of like what Sajid Javid did the
other day. He’s obviously been
reading Donald Trump’s book, The Art
of
Of The Deal, Sarah is right, Trump
Of The Deal, Sarah is right, Tmmp
is a bully but
Of The Deal, Sarah is right, Trump
is a bully but when he is confronted
with someone who says, "Get out of
here’, like
here", like most bullies, he starts
to back down. But he put a tariff on
whiskey, made good on a straight.
For about ten minutes but it’s not
going to be forever, the point is, I
think Sajid Javid is at the right
think Sajid javid is at the right
thing, he
think Sajid Javid is at the right
thing, he said, "You know what? We
are going to tax these guys until we
get an international deal", which
says to Tmmp,
says to Trump, "Get on with it", and
says to Tmmp, "Get on with it’, and
I think that is
says to Trump, "Get on with it", and
I think that is the right way to
deal with Donald Trump. This guy is
not, you know, he is not the devil
incarnate. He is
incarnate. He isjust a bloke.
incarnate. He is justa bloke.
Actually,
incarnate. He isjust a bloke.
Actually, with most blokes, as all
of the men in here can attest, you
of the men in here ran attest, you
ran deal
of the men in here can attest, you
can deal with them by standing up to
ran deal with them by standing up to
them property.
can deal with them by standing up to
them properly. APPLAUSE
them property. APPLAUSE
The
them properly. APPLAUSE
The women are clapping and their men
are not! Phil is clapping and he
asked the question, are these the
kind of trade—offs we will be
kind of trade-offs we will be
seeing,
kind of trade—offs we will be
seeing, given the new era we will be
in as of next Friday? I think it is
a good question from Phil, and I
will think about your question now.
In answer to the first part of the
question, is this a risk worth
taking? Well, I
taking? Well, Ithink
question, is this a risk worth
taking? Well, I think it is,
taking? Well, Ithink it is,
precisely
taking? Well, I think it is,
precisely because of what Trevor and
the others have said which was that
we have actually got to do something
with the tech firms. I have been
hanging on about the tech firms as a
banging on about the tech firms as a
police
hanging on about the tech firms as a
police chief for
banging on about the tech firms as a
police chief for the last ten years,
that they were not paying their
dues. One of the reasons why you
don’t see police officers on the
street is 50% of all crime now that
street is 5096 of all crime now that
occurs in
street is 50% of all crime now that
occurs in the UK is actually online.
And the people who have caused that,
And the peopla who have caused that,
who
And the people who have caused that,
who facilitate it, who allow it,
they pay no tax. So a levy of 2%, in
they pay no tax. So a levy of 296, in
my book, is not
they pay no tax. 50 a levy of 2%, in
my book, is not enough. It was
really interesting, the head of
Google Alphabet this week speculated
that Al, artificial intelligence, is
going to be more important for
humans than fire. Well, I have got a
bit of advice for him, I think that
fire is more important than
artificial intelligence and paying
tax is definitely more important
than artificial intelligence and
they are just not doing it. They are
accumulating billions of pounds. We
investigate a crime a few years ago,
it was just graffiti in Durham
it wasjust graffiti in Durham city
it was just graffiti in Durham city
centre, it
it wasjust graffiti in Durham city
centre, it was a World Heritage
Site, and we spotted one of our...
One of our good cops spotted the tag
on Flickr, so it was an easy
on Flickr, so it was an easyjob, it
on Flickr, so it was an easy job, it
was a young chap,
on Flickr, so it was an easyjob, it
was a young chap, young person
committing this time but it took us
nine months of legal wrangling in
the courts of southern California
for us to tell us who that —— for
for us to tell us who that -- for
them to tell
for us to tell us who that —— for
them to tell us who the person was
and when we walked around the house,
it was a 16—year—old boy and he put
it was a 16-year-old boy and he put
his hands
it was a16—year—old boy and he put
his hands out and said, "What took
his hands out and said, "what took
you so long?‘
his hands out and said, "What took
you so long?" This is costing you
you so long?‘ This is costing you
money and
you so long?" This is costing you
money and they are not paying taxes
and it is high time they did.
APPLAUSE
0K,
OK, let’s take another question.
Do Londoners live in a political
bubble and should Labour
stop listening to them
if they want to win an election?
APPLAUSE
Emily? Should you stop listening? I
think... I
think... Ithink
Emily? Should you stop listening? I
think... I think what is important
is that politicians always listen
and that they listen to people from
and that they listen to peopla from
all over.
and that they listen to people from
all over. Do you think Labour has
all over. Do you think labour has
been listening
all over. Do you think Labour has
been listening to the wrong people?
Know, I think Labour has been
Know, I think labour has been
listening to
Know, I think Labour has been
listening to people in all of our
communities. I think we could not
agree on what the right approach on
Brexit was and frankly, I think that
what happened with the last general
election was a monumental mistake. I
elaction was a monumental mistake. I
don’t think
election was a monumental mistake. I
don’t think we should have had a
general election, I think we should
have had another referendum, if we
wanted to get Brexit done, we should
have put the single issue to the
pub“:
public and said, "Do you want Boris
johnson’s deal
Johnson’s deal or don’t you? Let’s
johnson’s deal or don’t you? Let’s
deal with
Johnson’s deal or don’t you? Let’s
deal with that one issue and then
move on". You have said that the
number of times, I’m not suggesting
you shouldn’t but I remember you
saying that on this programme, in
fact. What would... You are
fact. what would... You are
campaigning
fact. What would... You are
campaigning for the Labour
leadership, obviously, what would
the party look like and you? The
same Corbyn policies or a different
figurehead or would you move the
labour Party
Labour Party in a different
labour Party in a different
direction,
Labour Party in a different
direction, more towards the centre,
for example? I don’t think Labour
for exampla? I don’t think labour
needs to
for example? I don’t think Labour
needs to have some kind of
existential crisis about who we are,
we know who we are and we are proud
of who we are but I don’t think at
the last general election, first of
all, as I said, we try to change the
subject and we were not able to
because Boris on the one side says,
"Get Brexit done", and we have got
three and half paragraphs of arts
and we try to change the subject. 50
and we try to change the subject. So
7°“-
you, going for
and we try to change the subject. 50
you, going for the leadership, you
say we know who we are but who would
labour the under you with yellow
what we would do is I think we would
do something which is actually... Is
what Britain wants and what Britain
sees itself as being of a
compassionate society where we look
after one another. Something
catastrophic could happen to anyone
in this room and we will look after
one another, whether you are ill and
the NHS for look you, whether you
lose your
lose yourjob and there will be a
safety net for you. At the moment,
the safety net has such huge holes
in it that entire families. And end
“P
up in food banks. We are disgusted
as a nation, the number of people
as a nation, the number of peopla
who are
as a nation, the number of people
who are sleeping on the street.
There is another way, it doesn’t
have to be like this and we also
need to be a nation where we give
one another opportunities, where we
help one another to do well and
effectively, I think that is what
Britain wants. They want to have an
opposition and unfortunately, an
opposition now, that they can
believe in so when we say, "It
doesn’t have to be this way, there’s
another war,
another way", we are credible,
another war, we are credible,
believable,
another way", we are credible,
believable, and they know that these
appalling Tories are not the only
“Y
way that Britain needs to be. OK, a
lot of
way that Britain needs to be. 0K, 3
lot of hands
way that Britain needs to be. OK, a
lot of hands up
way that Britain needs to be. 0K, 3
lot of hands up and I’m going to go
around a few of you, the man in the
black. If you are not willing to
fast
cast off their shadow of Corbyn is,
how ran you
how can you expect us to believe
how ran you expect us to believe
that you are
how can you expect us to believe
that you are listening to us? And
this one in the orange. Can you see
this one in the orange. (“an you see
me question my
this one in the orange. Can you see
me question my candour panel see me?
me question my randour panel see me?
(“an you hear me?
me question my candour panel see me?
Can you hear me? That makes a change
(“an you hear me? That makes a change
for me as a
Can you hear me? That makes a change
for me as a black woman. I run
for me as a black woman. I mn
Sister Space, a
for me as a black woman. I run
Sister Space, 3 domestic violence
Sister Space, a domestic violence
organisation, a charity for African
and Caribbean heritage women
affected by domestic abuse. We are
not visible, we are not... We are
not visibla, we are not... We are
not
not visible, we are not... We are
not listen to. I don’t think anybody
sees the problem is that we are
having. You talk about police and
more police on the street. For us,
that’s a problem because we go and
report abuse and we would be asked
questions like they don’t see a red
mark and stuff like that and as for
the windrush generation, they have
the windmsh generation, they have
stopped
the windrush generation, they have
stopped reporting abuse to us
because they don’t want to be
deported. Do you see us? Do you hear
us? APPLAUSE
The man in the glasses at the back,
yes. I
yes. Ithink
The man in the glasses at the back,
yes. I think that one of the things
jeremy Corbyn
Jeremy Corbyn has done which I think
jeremy Corbyn has done which I think
was very bad is
Jeremy Corbyn has done which I think
was very bad is he has never agreed
with what Boris
with what BorisJohnson or Theresa
with what Boris johnson or Theresa
May has ever
with what BorisJohnson or Theresa
May has ever said and I think that
if you were made a leader, you
should at least sometimes say,
"Well, yeah, I
"Well, yeah, Iagree
should at least sometimes say,
"Well, yeah, I agree with you at
this point", instead of saying, "No,
I don’t agree", and obviously, Boris
johnson must be
Johnson must be right sometimes. And
johnson must be right sometimes. And
the other
Johnson must be right sometimes. And
the other man in the glasses. In
order to win an election, you need
to appeal beyond your core vote,
like... Boris managed to do this
duﬂng
during the election because he
listen to people in the North of
listen to peopla in the North of
England and
listen to people in the North of
England and he had the pulse, he was
able to understand the pulse of
people wanting to get Brexit done.
peopla wanting to get Brexit done.
labour, if it
people wanting to get Brexit done.
Labour, if it wants to win, it needs
labour, if it wants to win, it needs
to start
Labour, if it wants to win, it needs
to start appealing to these people
and appealing beyond their core vote
if they ever want to win an election
again. Let me hear
again. Let me hearfrom the man in
again. Let me hear from the man in
the check
again. Let me hearfrom the man in
the check shirt. I am going to bring
“P
up David Dimbleby because he’s done
up David Dimblaby because he’s done
a podrast
up David Dimbleby because he’s done
a podcast recently about Rupert
Murdoch and I was wondering how
labour is
Labour is going to win an election
labour is going to win an elaction
when his
Labour is going to win an election
when his newspapers like the sun and
the times are having such an effect
on northerners, for example,
manipulating them, let’s use the
word brainwashing because that is
really what it comes down to it with
their headlights and so on, there’s
no chance... Without their support.
no chance. . . without their support.
What,
what, all of
no chance... Without their support.
What, all of them are? Well, the
what, all of them are? Well, the
vast majority
What, all of them are? Well, the
vast majority of papers and Rupert
Murdoch particularly. We have got
someone he who works for a Murdoch
paper so you are perfectly placed to
answer that question. I have never
had so much rubbish! I mean, what a
good excuse, the biggest Labour
election defeat since 1935. It
really is pathetic to blame the
press. Honestly, I
press. Honestly, Ithink
really is pathetic to blame the
press. Honestly, I think you are
underestimating the intelligence and
wit and savvy of the vast majority
of citizens and I think Labour under
of citizens and I think labour under
jeremy Corbyn
of citizens and I think Labour under
Jeremy Corbyn and under almost any
jeremy Corbyn and under almost any
of the
Jeremy Corbyn and under almost any
of the leaders, and I’m sorry to say
I include you with this at the
moment, Emily, are making the same
mistakes of underestimating the
electric, pretending Labour is not
electric, pretending labour is not
in an
electric, pretending Labour is not
in an existential crisis. It could
sink further in votes, there is
about another 30 seats in the red
wall that could easily go. I don’t
even think they are particularly
even think they are particularty
listening to
even think they are particularly
listening to Londoners. I don’t know
who they are listening to an Labour
who they are listening to an labour
apart from
who they are listening to an Labour
apart from themselves. There is one
candidate, Lisa Nandy, who is doing
candidate, Lisa Mandy, who is doing
quite well and
candidate, Lisa Nandy, who is doing
quite well and getting a little bit
of attention purely because she said
one thing that was absolutely 100%
one thing that was absolutely 10096
true, she
one thing that was absolutely 100%
true, she said Labour has got to
true, she said labour has got to
change or die
true, she said Labour has got to
change or die and that is the
situation that
situation thatJeremy Corbyn has
situation that jeremy Corbyn has
landed
situation thatJeremy Corbyn has
[ended his party in. APPLAUSE
landed his party in. APPLAUSE
Mike, I
[ended his party in. APPLAUSE
Mike, I know you want to come in so
the question was, do Londoners live
in a political bubble and should
in a political bubbla and should
labour
in a political bubble and should
Labour listen to them if they want
labour listen to them if they want
to win an
Labour listen to them if they want
to win an election? What is your
to win an election? what is your
perspective,
to win an election? What is your
perspective, given your time in
Durham? Clearly, there are really
Durham? Clearty, there are really
deprived
Durham? Clearly, there are really
deprived communities in London so
for people to characterise London as
for peopla to characterise London as
a homogenous
for people to characterise London as
a homogenous group of people is
a homogenous group of peopla is
insulting and
a homogenous group of people is
insulting and inaccurate so the lady
in tangerine at the front, we
absolutely hear you and when I heard
you say what you said, it
you say what you said, itjust
absolutely hear you and when I heard
you say what you said, it just felt
like the police force I
like the police force Ijoined 39
years ago, not the one that I am
proud to have
proud to havejust
years ago, not the one that I am
proud to have just left,
proud to havejust left, so again, I
proud to have just left, so again, I
offer a
proud to havejust left, so again, I
offer a conversation with you later,
to see if we can resolve some issues
to see if we ran resolve some issues
there
to see if we can resolve some issues
there because it sounds terrible.
There is a sense elsewhere in the
country that legislation and policy
country that lagislation and policy
is
country that legislation and policy
is London—centric. I am going to
is London-centric. I am going to
give you two
is London—centric. I am going to
give you two examples. The bedroom
tax, when it hit County Durham,
meant that people moved out of
meant that peopla moved out of
perfectly
meant that people moved out of
perfectly serviceable houses and we
perfectly serviceabla houses and we
now
perfectly serviceable houses and we
now have empty streets because mums
and single parents were living in
and singla parents were living in
solidly
and single parents were living in
solidly built, three—bedroom houses
solidly built, three-bedroom houses
that they
solidly built, three—bedroom houses
that they were going to be fined for
living in. And that is because that
sort of issue was very
London—centric. That can also be a
London-centric. That ran also be a
social
London—centric. That can also be a
social mistake. I am going back a
long way now to when Princess Diana
died. It was very insulting to the
rest of the country when all the
commentators and all the noise was
that the Queen had to come home to
her people. She was in Balmoral. She
is the Queen of Scotland. And this
idea that somehow, the economy has
to be based around London and there
is a trickle—down effect is just not
is a trickla-down effect is just not
working. And
is a trickle—down effect is just not
working. And we have seen that. That
is why there is the vote that we
have just seen. People feel
disenfranchised. But I want to make
it clear that there will be plenty
it clear that there will be planty
of peopla
it clear that there will be plenty
of people feeling equally
disenfranchised in London. Theresa?
I don’t agree that Londoners live in
a political bubble, but I do think
a political bubbla, but I do think
that
a political bubble, but I do think
that Labour needs to change
fundamentally before it will be fit
for government again. It needs to
change because it needs an economic
policy that adds up. It needs to
change so that its Brexit policy
respect the democratic vote of the
country. And most crucially, it
needs to deal with this disgraceful
problem with anti—Semitism and
problem with anti-Semitism and
racism.
problem with anti—Semitism and
racism. Let me go around a couple of
peopla
people before I come to Trevor. The
woman there? Theresa Villiers is
talking about respecting the will of
the people when just today, the
the peopla when just today, the
Welsh
the people when just today, the
Welsh assembly, and we have had the
Scottish parliament and Stormont all
Scottish partiament and Stormont all
voting
Scottish parliament and Stormont all
voting against the Brexit Bill. And
they are not being listened to. As a
Londoner, I am
Londoner, lam really
they are not being listened to. As a
Londoner, I am really sorry to the
other nations of the UK. It is not
London that is doing that to you. We
all have to respect the fact that we
have different views and try and
think about in some way recognising
that we exist as well here in
London, and that it is not a bad
thing to listen to us just because
we are in London. The man in the red
jacket? I
jacket? Ijust wanted to say
we are in London. The man in the red
jacket? I just wanted to say that
the Labour Party keep saying that
the labour Party keep saying that
Brexit
the Labour Party keep saying that
Brexit is not getting done at the
end of the month and that it will
take a long time to negotiate any
deal, yet no one in the leadership
contest is championing anything
resembling Brexit as people voted.
Emily Thornberry, you say there is
no chance that a deal will be agreed
before the end of the year, yet the
chair of the trade committee of the
EU has said it is possible, so why
are you so negative about it? Let me
get Trevor in. In the companies that
I work for, we have a lot of people
I work for, we have a lot of peopla
who work
I work for, we have a lot of people
who work outside London. Firstly, I
apologise to the person who said
northerners are brainwashed, he
didn’t really mean it. He was saying
something quite different. Everybody
outside London is a smart as
everybody inside London and I had
nothing to do with that remark.
There is a separate point here. Not
everybody in London is the same.
when it
When it comes to listening, one of
when it comes to listening, one of
the things
When it comes to listening, one of
the things which struck me during
the things which stmck me during
the
the election tells me that the
the elaction tells me that the
labour
the election tells me that the
Labour Party, which, by the way, I
labour Party, which, by the way, I
am still a
Labour Party, which, by the way, I
am still a member,
am stilla member, has
Labour Party, which, by the way, I
am still a member, has a problem
with listening, was our great big
ﬂagship
flagship policy about broadband. I
ﬂagship policy about broadband. I
talked
flagship policy about broadband. I
talked to people both in London and
talked to peopla both in London and
outside
talked to people both in London and
outside London, and they literally
all said the same thing. Did they
say what the woman in the red dress
set, rubbish? You’re going to give
me free broadband? I can’t even pay
my water and electricity bill, help
me with that first! You’re going to
give me free broadband so
give me free broadband sol
me with that first! You’re going to
give me free broadband so I can
give me free broadband so I ran
tweak to
give me free broadband so I can
tweak to people that I am dying of
tweak to peopla that I am dying of
dehydration!
tweak to people that I am dying of
dehydration! —— I can tweet to
dehydration! -- I ran tweet to
people. That is
dehydration! —— I can tweet to
people. That is an example of Labour
peopla. That is an example of labour
not
people. That is an example of labour
not listening to
people. That is an example of Labour
not listening to its own people, but
because we came up with a policy
that even our own people couldn’t
that even our own peopla couldn’t
identify with.
that even our own people couldn’t
identify with. If I could make a
quick point, we will see who comes
out as leader but I don’t think our
biggest problem is the leadership is
a party. Our problem is the
followership. This week, somebody
pulled the Labour Party members and
pulled the labour Party members and
asked them,
pulled the Labour Party members and
asked them, who is the greatest
labour
Labour leader of the last 100 years?
labour leader of the last 100 years?
They walked
Labour leader of the last 100 years?
They walked straight past Blair,
three election victories. They
weren’t interested in Wilson, who
gave us our anti—discrimination and
gave us our anti-discrimination and
Equal Pay Act.
gave us our anti—discrimination and
Equal Pay Act. They didn’t even
think about Attlee, who created the
NHS. 70% said Jeremy Corbyn, who
NHS. 7096 said jeremy Corbyn, who
gave us two
NHS. 70% said Jeremy Corbyn, who
gave us two lost elections and gave
the Tories 60 seats that they have
never won before. We hear you.
Emily, be quick. There is a lot to
say! I
say! Iwill
Emily, be quick. There is a lot to
say! I will leave the issue about
Brexit and I will come onto the
fasting off of
casting off of the shadow of
Corbynism. Frankly, I
Corbynism. Frankly, Ithink
casting off of the shadow of
Corbynism. Frankly, I think this is
Corbynism. Frankly, Ithink this is
part of
Corbynism. Frankly, I think this is
part of the issue. I think that if
fasting
casting a shadow of Corbynism means
fasting off
casting off speaking from the heart,
fasting off speaking from the heart,
I don’t
casting off speaking from the heart,
I don’t cut that off. I don’t cast
off the reinvigorating of the Labour
off the reinvigorating of the labour
Party and
off the reinvigorating of the Labour
Party and bringing people in. If we
Party and bringing peopla in. Ifwe
are genuine
Party and bringing people in. If we
are genuine and we are true and we
are genuine and we are tme and we
say what we
are genuine and we are true and we
say what we believe and we mean what
we say, then I think people will
we say, then I think peopla will
start to
we say, then I think people will
start to come to us. But I do think
that if we cannot deal with the
issue of anti—Semitism in our own
issue of anti-Semitism in our own
Party.
party, then I
issue of anti—Semitism in our own
party, then I understand why people
party, then I understand why peopla
across
party, then I understand why people
across the country didn’t believe we
could transform our economy. If we
can’t even deal with an issue like
that, then one can understand why
that, then one ran understand why
peopla found
that, then one can understand why
people found it difficult to follow
peopla found it difficult to follow
us and
people found it difficult to follow
us and believe in us. We have to
speak on behalf of the whole
speak on behalf of the whola
country. 1.I
speak on behalf of the whole
country. U have been making for a
country. 1.I have been making for a
number of years
country. U have been making for a
number of years now is that we need
to speak on behalf of the whole
to speak on behalf of the whola
country. In
to speak on behalf of the whole
country. In large cities, we are
good at making our voice heard, but
the smaller towns and cities and
suburbs are not. One of the problems
suburbs are not. One of the problams
with
suburbs are not. One of the problems
with broadband was that it was
practically the only policy that we
offered to those smaller towns and
cities across Britain. We need to be
honest about the fact that it isn’t
just the Tories who didn’t invest in
infrastructure. When we were in
infrastmclure. when we were in
government
infrastructure. When we were in
government and when areas had been
de—industrialised, we may have been
tie-industrialised, we may have been
good at
de—industrialised, we may have been
good at investing in schools and
hospitals, but we were not dealing
with the economy in those areas and
we should never allow the situation
to continue where if you are a
youngster in a northern town, you
say to your mum, sorry, mum, but
there are very few opportunities
here. I either have to suck it up or
move to London and the south—east.
move to London and the south-east.
Our economy is
move to London and the south—east.
Our economy is entirely unbalanced
and we need to have a radical look
at this and find solutions for that.
That is what the Labour Party should
That is what the labour Party should
be doing. We
That is what the Labour Party should
be doing. We have five years in
opposition to sort this out. We will
get a lot of rhetoric from the
Tories and the Times. They say they
were sort this problem out, but they
won’t and we need to hold them to
account. Emily Thornberry is
accusing me of rhetoric? You have
rolled in so many themes there. I
was told I had to do it quickly! I
was told I had 90 seconds. I never
said 90 seconds. You spoke very fast
about a tonne of things. You said,
we believed in what we said and if
people had only heard our passion
peopla had only heard our passion
and our
people had only heard our passion
and our belief, things could have
been different. But your message was
wrong. No.
wrong. No. There are a couple of
people with hands up? I think that
peopla with hands up? I think that
Emily is right
people with hands up? I think that
Emily is right that Labour are going
Emily is right that labour are going
to be in
Emily is right that Labour are going
to be in opposition for
to be in opposition forfive
Emily is right that Labour are going
to be in opposition for five years
and there is not a lot they can do.
and there is not a lot they ran do.
But the
and there is not a lot they can do.
But the difference in the UK
compared to somewhere like over
here, on the left and right, people
presume that if you don’t have
parliamentary or legislative power,
partiamentary or legislative power,
you can’t
parliamentary or legislative power,
you can’t have a significant
political impact in this country.
Actually, if you look at France, you
peopla from all
people from all different comic
backgrounds and religious
backgrounds and people from
different communities who are
pulling together and saying no, and
they are getting results. They have
got contentions from Macron and the
pension reforms and that is the type
of power that scares Boris Johnson,
of power that stares Boris johnson,
that
of power that scares Boris Johnson,
that scares Theresa here and scared
that stares Theresa here and stared
Thatcher
that scares Theresa here and scared
Thatcher in 1990 when she tried to
introduce the poll tax. And this
sort of pseudo— culture war that is
sort of pseudo- culture war that is
now being
sort of pseudo— culture war that is
now being laundered by the
mainstream press across the country
at the moment is pitting people
at the moment is pitting peopla
against
at the moment is pitting people
against each other so that we don’t
come together and start to say no
and fight for our communities and
fight for these cuts. Everybody in
this country, unless you are
incredibly rich, is worse off as a
result of ten years of Tory
austerity. So regardless of who wins
the election, people need to come
together now and start resisting.
Thank you very much. 0K, we have
time for one quick question from
Alastair Duncan.
Should politicians be subject
to lie detector tests?
Theresa, I am assuming you are keen
on this because your proposed terror
reforms include plans to introduce
detector tests. Would you be
prepared to be to one? Absolutely I
would. I can’t see a widespread use
for these. Hang on, your government
is suggesting introducing a
widespread use for them with the new
terror legislation, or had you
forgotten that? That set of
proposals is worthwhile, but in
terms of introducing them in
politic, I’m
politics, I’m not sure there is a
politic, I’m not sure there is a
use for
politics, I’m not sure there is a
case for that. But I would be more
use for that. But I would be more
than
rase for that. But I would be more
than happy to
case for that. But I would be more
than happy to take one of those
tests. That would be quite a
Question Time, wouldn’t it? Let’s
say that I thought for a moment. We
have been using them since 2014. 11
forces used them with registered sex
offenders and 4000 people have taken
the test and over 350 have failed.
the test and over 350 have failad.
That is
the test and over 350 have failed.
That is about 8%. And they have
That is about 896. And they have
either gone
That is about 8%. And they have
either gone back to prison or had a
change in their regime. The lie
detector test puts pressure on
people that they need to tell the
truth. I am
truth. lam not
people that they need to tell the
truth. I am not sure I am entirely
truth. lam not sure I am entirely
with the
truth. I am not sure I am entirely
with the man on the back row who has
just spoken, but I do think there
needs to be public discourse. You do
need to see your MP. If the people
in this audience haven’t been to see
your MP personally, shame on you.
Use that power to make sure they
tmly
truly represent. One of my worries
tmly represent. One of my worries
is that
truly represent. One of my worries
is that whenever you get a political
party
Party in.
is that whenever you get a political
party in, they don’t think they
represent the country, when they
actually do. I think a bit more
Question Time love—in that you have
Question Time love-in that you have
seen tonight
Question Time love—in that you have
seen tonight might not go amiss. We
have about A0 seconds left to answer
have about 40 seconds left to answer
this.
have about A0 seconds left to answer
this. Trevor? To be honest, I don’t
see what the point would be. I am
often more afraid of politicians
like Donald Trump who tell me what
like Donald Tmmp who tell me what
they really
like Donald Trump who tell me what
they really think, because when I
know what he really thinks, that is
what scares me.
what scares me. I think we shouldn’t
be going around thinking that there
is some truth that we can all
is some truth that we ran all
discover.
is some truth that we can all
discover. Politics is about
disagreement, and most politicians
tell you what they do think. Because
you disagree, it doesn’t mean they
have lied. Sarah? The problem is not
that the politicians lie, the
problem is that they believe their
own BS.
own BS. We don’t need to put Boris
johnson to a lie
Johnson to a lie detector test,
johnson to a lie detector test,
let’s
Johnson to a lie detector test,
let’s face it. He won’t face the
media. He would rather hide in a
freezer than talk to a journalist.
One way in which he can be held to
One way in which he ran be held to
account
One way in which he can be held to
account and will not be able to run
account and will not be able to mn
away each
account and will not be able to run
away each week, the real lie
detector test will be Prime
Minister’s Questions each week, and
we need to make sure we have a
decent leader who takes him on and
ran expose him
can expose him as the liar that he
ran expose him as the liar that he
is. Emily got her
can expose him as the liar that he
is. Emily got her pitch in at the
end! RR is up. Next week we are in
Buxton in Derbyshire. The week after
that, we will be in Hertfordshire.
If you want to carry on this
conversation, you can
conversation, you canjoin Adrian
conversation, you ranjoin Adrian
Chihs
conversation, you canjoin Adrian
Chiles and guests on Question Time
extra time on Radio 5 live right
now. Thank you to the panel, to the
audience here for your questions and
comments and to you at home for
watching and listening. From Stoke
Newington, bye—bye.
No clear—cut cause of death,
I’m afraid.
Don’t give up on someone.
It’s blood.
She’s in stasis.
You’re researching cryogenics.
That little girl...
..is me.
Welcome to the FA Cup Fourth Round.
Idiliiillllf
WHISTLE BLOWS
0h, sensational!
This is going to be
a terrific cup tie.
Vardy strikes again!
Oh, what a superb goal
for Fulham and Harry Arter.
Jones curls!
What a goal!
It’s an absolutely stunning goal!
That’s what the FA Cup’s all about.
What a way to start
the Fourth Round of the FA Cup.
A huge weekend of FA Cup action
kicks off with...
Brexitcast. ..
From the BBC.
DANNY DYER: No—one’s got a (BLEEP)
clue what Brexit is!
DONALD TRUMP: Brexit is, errr...
DOMINIC RAAB: I hadn’t quite
understood the full extent of this.
We are particularly reliant
on the Dover—Calais crossing.
KEIR STARMER: This election
blew away the argument
for a second referendum.
BORISJOHNSON: I urge
everyone to find closure.
Let the healing begin.
URSULA VON DER LEYEN: I am sorry.
We will miss you.
YANIS VAROUFAKIS: A process which I
can only describe as a dog’s Brexit.
Well, this is nice.
I’ve got some new friends.
It’s like a new look Brexitcast
but only temporarily and I’ve got
the massive job of being Adam
and Chris in one.
I’m Alex Forsyth, PolCor,
political correspondent, BBC,
but I’m not sure I can live up
to the Adam/Chris reputation.
You can have your own
reputation, Alex.
You’re your own person.
That could be dangerous.
On your left?
I’n Matt Chorley, the editor
of the Times Red Box e—mail,
podcast and anything else
they get me to do.
And sometime stand—up
comedian, no less.
Yes.
No pressure.
You’re in charge of the jokes.
Fine.
Helen?
I’m not sure what I’m in charge
of but I’m Helen Lewis,
staff writer at the Atlantic.
And you are also allowed
to telljokes, by the way.
Yeah.
If Matt’s. . .
If one creeps out, that’s fine.
Or if Matt’s rubbish.
Or if Matt is not funny.
But one of my old, good,
best friends is still
with us but is in...
Bologna, yes, I’m in Bologna
and I was about to say,
enough of your new friends already!
We are just getting in while we can,
Katya, that’s all it is.
We’re just taking advantage of it.
Very nice to hear you.
Well, there was news
today, news, wasn’t it?
But in a bit of a quiet, weird way
because the Withdrawal Bill that
we’ve spent so much time on this
programme talking about...
Just has actually
become law, finally.
But blink and you miss
it, seriously.
Yeah.
I mean, all of those years
of my life, your life,
everyone’s life, the wrangling,
the pain, the agony,
the "will be ever get there",
and it was literally blink
and you’ll miss it,
there we go, sorted.